So on your request today we will compare
two plans Niva Bhupa Health Aspire and
ICSC Lord's new plan Elevate. We
will compare both of them, which is better, what are the
features and how do both work.
So here I would
like to give a disclaimer that I have made this comparison of the plans on the
basis of the information available on the
features of the plans.
You can see it as per your need
and according to your due diligence, which
plan is better for you. Before starting the video, I would
like to introduce myself. My name is Gurleen Kaur Tikku.
I am a Certified Finance Planner. I have been
associated with the insurance industry for 19 years
and every week I bring videos for you
so that your personal financial life can
become easy and happy because
this is also the tagline of our company - Creating a Wealth
of Happiness. Let's move towards the video comparison.
Niva Bhupa Health Aspire vs
ICSC Lord Health Elevate.
Quick reminder before starting the video, if
you have not yet subscribed to our channel  If you have not subscribed, do it so that
you get the right information
at the right time. So first we will talk about the
ICR of both, which is the Income Claim Ratio. The
Income Claim Ratio of Niva Bupa is
54.0 and that of ICICI is
2.36. Now let's talk about the USPs.
What is special about these two plans? What are their unique
selling points? There is Lock the Clock in N B, in
which your premium is not revised
until you make a claim. The impact of age does not
come. The second benefit is maternity covered
in this plan only after nine months. The third
benefit is borderless feature, which means if you are taking
treatment outside India as well. If
you have taken borderless rider, then
you can take treatment outside India as well. You
can claim hospitalization expenses. The fourth benefit is multiplier
benefit, which is also called booster benefit. If
you do not use your sum share, then the
unutilized sum share is carried forward
up to 10x. It can be carried forward up to 10 times.  There
are different plans according to
age. Lord Health Elevate has
unique selling points. Firstly, they
offer CIBIL discounts. If your
credit score is good, you
get a discount of up to 20%. Secondly,
a new feature has been launched in this plan which is called
Power Booster. It means that if
you are taking a policy today, your premium will
increase by 100% next year and then by
100% again the next year. There is no maximum limit. Just
enter indefinitely. There is no worry about
what will happen if the time runs out. Another
good thing is that the maximum entry age is
125 years. So essentially, there is
no maximum entry age. You
can enter this policy at any age.
Even if an indefinite age comes along, the insurance company will
settle it. Through this rider, you can avail
Funfight Care and Power Booster. So, we will
understand in detail what is covered
and what are the benefits. And here I would
like to tell you one thing, Niva B Health
Aspire also has a standalone plan
and ICICI Elevate also has a plan.
We will put the links in the description as well.
You can check both the
plans separately whichever you want to buy. First point is room
eligibility. So n b Health. In Aspire,
you do not have any room rent restriction.
You can opt for any room. ICCA
Lombard Elevate plan has a single
private AC room. If you
want to downgrade to a higher category room or choose a room, you
can modify the room. Age an add-on
Minimum entry age Minimum entry age
in Niva Bupa Expire is 18 years and
maximum is 65. So,
you can enter this policy only in the window of 18 to 65 and
children from 91 days to 30 years
can continue in this policy.
Minimum entry age is 18 years. Maximum
entry age is 125 years and 125 years in
ICICI Lombard Elevate plan.
Sum short and maximum
sum short. Minimum sum assured of Rs 5 lakh
is available in Spire.
Maximum is Rs 1 crore in ICICI Elevate. If
you
want to take unlimited cover, that
option is also available. Policy tenure of one year, two
year and three year policies is available
in both the plans. You know that if you
take a long tenure or multi tenure policy, the
insurance company gives you a discount there. Talking about bonus,
booster is available in Niva B. Booster
means the sum assured which you are not using gets carried forward
to the
next year. So here there are basically three
variants - Gold, Platinum,
Titanium. Accordingly, your
bonus is carried forward. Maximum is
10x and minimum is 3x. And in ICICI Lombard
Elevate, you get a bonus of Rs 20. Every year the
maximum of your sum assured goes up to 100%.
Now let's talk about day care. So, day care.
Expenses are also covered.
Home care treatment is also covered in both the policies. Your
domicile hospitalization means if you have to be
hospitalized at home or a
bed is not available in the hospital or the patient
is so critical that he cannot be taken to the hospital, then that
expense will also be covered by the
insurance company as per the policy terms and
conditions. AYUSH hospitalization is also covered
in both the policies. Now let's talk about
modern treatments and robotic surgeries.
Both the plans cover
your modern treatments and
robotic surgeries up to the limit of the insurance amount. Emergency
road ambulance will be covered as per actuals
in both the policies.
Whatever expenses will be there, emergency air
ambulance is inbuilt in Niva Papa Spire,
you are covered. If you
need emergency evacuation, then air
ambulance will be used. And you
can add it as a rider in IIC Loard.
Refill benefit by paying additional premium. So refill
benefit is available in both the plans.  An
unlimited number of times refill benefit is available in Niva Bappa
Aspire as well as ICICI Lombard
Advantage. Basically,
if your sum assured gets exhausted, the
base policy amount for which you had taken the policy is exhausted and
utilized in a year, then another sum assured
equal to your base sum assured will be
added to your policy and this will continue to happen not once but
multiple times. You get an unlimited
number of times complimentary wellness
test annual health checkup which is
inbuilt in Niva Bappa, which you
can claim up to ₹1000000.
In ICICI Lombard Elevate, your sum assured can be added
through a rider, for that you will have to select a rider. So, there are
many riders available in ICICI Lombard Elevate,
you can customize the plan as per your requirement. Pre
and post hospitalization expenses means the
expenses before going to the hospital and the
expenses after going to the hospital, 60 days before in Niva Bappa and 180
days after in ICICI Lombard Elevate  You can claim the
expenses of 90 days before and 180 days after the
consultation. So
in Niva B, unlimited D consultation
is available in your plan and
you can also consult doctors for second medical opinion.
In ICICI Elevate, you will have to choose a
rider to include tele consultations
and
you can include tele consultations. Non-
payable items, which we also
call consumable items, can be covered through rider in both the plans,
where your
non-payable items will also be covered in the policy.
OPD cover is also a
rider in both the plans. There is Well Consult in Niva Bupa
and there is B Fit Rider in ICICI Lombard. It is an
old rider as well.
Detailed video is made on both the riders on that too.
You can refer to that also for detailed
information. Co-payment option is
basically voluntary co-payment, where you
say that I want to reduce the premium,
for which you can pay Rs. 10  You choose whatever co-payment is available at Rs. 20,
you will share that much in the claim, at the time of
claim it gets reduced, so co-payment option
is not available in Niva Bappa, in Asi Lord
Elevate you can choose co-payment
as a rider deductible option, annual
aggregate deductible option, so deductible is
basically that you decide a small amount, if
tomorrow a claim comes then
you will pay Rs. 20000-30000 from the small amount
and the insurance company will not pay, the
bills above that will be paid by the insurance
company, in return the
insurance company gives you discounts,
so here the co-
payment is a percentage, if a claim of Rs. 1 lakh
comes then it is co-pay at Rs. 20000, if a
claim of Rs. 2 lakh comes then you will have to
pay Rs. 40000 as a percentage where
as deductible is a fixed amount, whatever
amount you choose  20000 0000 that
you will have to pay, all the claims above that are
paid by the insurance company only once a year,
so deductible also reduces your cost,
many people want to reduce the cost
or already have an assisting
policy, then they can choose the deductible option
which is available only in Niva b Aspire, it
is not available in ICICI Elevate,
so what we were talking about is the initially lock the
clock feature, which is available in Va b Aspire,
lock the clock means your premium will
not be revised, it will not be revised as per your age
till the time you make your first
claim, that is called lock the clock, so you are
locking your age, it will not increase,
if you enter the policy at 30 years
and do not make a claim till 50 years, then you will keep
paying the premium for 30 years
till 50 years and when you make a claim, then you will pay the premium as per that age
slab further, a a
I have clarified here earlier also,
here only age is charged  It is locked, inflation is
not locked. If the
premium is increasing due to inflation, you will have to pay that,
but your premium will not
increase due to age. In Age ISI Lombard Elevate,
you have age slabs of five years. The
premium will increase according to 5 years. The
feature is maternity cover. So,
maternity cover is inbuilt in Nee Boop Expire. You
can claim after nine months. There are different
limits with different variants and there are
different waiting periods as well. This is in
front of you on the screen. This is
called Miracle Cover, in which delivery expenses,
antenatal checkup, mother's vaccination, IVF,
surrogacy, adoption and newborn baby
expenses are also covered. So, the waiting period
in Gold is 48 months, in Diamond Plus it is
24 months, in Platinum and Titanium it is nine
months. So the maximum benefit is Rs 25,000 per
year. And the bonus that we were talking about, which is of
booster, that too will be carried forward
with your booster.  The
benefit is suppose to be 25000 and you have
10x booster benefit which you have not used,
it will become 2.5 lakh in 10 years. The
maternity benefit which is the delivery cost is available as per the
III Lord Elevate through rider
you can add maternity and
newborn baby coverage. Maximum maternity
limit is % of sum assured ₹1 lakh and
newborn baby expenses is
two years. You take the coverage here. There is a
waiting period of two years for maternity.
Global cover
is available in Niva, which we talked about Borderless, it
is available with co-payment here, you
can choose, you
can enjoy worldwide coverage anywhere.
Global cover is not available in III Lord Abbott at present.
Now let's talk about
waiting periods. So there is a waiting period
which is the initial waiting period
in both the plans. Which is the initial
waiting period  You cannot get a plan hospitalization for a period of 30 days.
Emergency
accidental hospitalization is covered from your first day. The
second space exclusion,
which we also call slow growing illnesses, is
listed there. They will not be covered for
2 years in both the policies. Pre-
existing disease waiting period: The
problems which already exist, there is a
waiting period of three years in Egistify rule. There is a
waiting period of three years in ICSA Lord Elevate for pre-existing
conditions. Now let's talk about optional riders
because there are many riders available. So the
optional riders which are available in Niva Bupa are
cash back, in which if you do not make a claim, then
you get a discount every year.
Borderless which is your global coverage.
Future Ready: You
take the guarantee of adding your future spouse from today itself, you
can choose that rider. Fast forward, you
want to enjoy multi-tenure cover together, that means suppose you take a policy of Rs 10 lakh,
you take a policy of 3 years together,
then Rs 30 lakh  Your cover will be from day one.
Maternity cover will also be available three times.
Safeguard Plus which covers your non-payable items.
Hospital Daily Cash in
which you get Hospital Daily Cash
for the number of days hospitalized. Along with this,
your Personal Accidental Rider
is also available where Accidental Death,
Permanent Total Disability and Permanent
Partial Disability are also covered.
Smart Health Plus Rider is
your disease management. Basically, if you have
BP and diabetes and you
want to cover it after 30 days and do
not want to serve the pre-assisting waiting period, then
you can choose Smart Health Rider.
Next is Well Consult which is
their OPD Rider. Now let's talk about
ISI Lombard. There are 18 riders which we will
discuss. The first one is Durable Medical
Equipment. If you want to add it, you
can add it. Dependent Accommodation Benefit. If you
want to give dependent accommodation benefit,
that can also be covered.
We talked about Annual Health Checkup.  The claim
protector which are non-payable items are covered.
Power booster which we
talked about in USP. Power booster is that every
year your sum shot will increase by 100%, there is no
maximum limit.
Infant care ambulance cover which we
talked about. Network advantage which we
also call preferred partner network.
If you make a claim in that hospital which is in the
list of specific preferred partner network, then
you get network
advantage and
discount on premium. But if you make a
claim outside that list of hospitals, then
you will have to pay a fee. So choose
wisely. According to me,
do not take network advantage
because you are not sure about which
hospital you have to go to and when, so you can avoid
nursing at home, this is also covered.
Compassionate visit. Inflation protector. Every
year your sum shot will increase according to inflation.
Conveyance benefit critical
illness in which lump sum critical illnesses,
your lump sum payout  Jump start happens in case of diagnosed
critical illness.
Jump start is where you want to cover your AB CD
conditions like asthma, BP, cholesterol, diabetes
and obesity from day one, then
that option is also available. In case of personal
accident in which lump sum benefit is given in accidental death, permanent
total disability, permanent partial disability,
room
modification, you can select copayment which
is again voluntary copayment. If you
take copayment then the premium will be reduced and last
but not the least is B Fit Rider which is an
OPD rider. So many riders are available, there are
so many choices, you can choose the one
you want, so the choice is yours. So here
I have calculated the premium for a
family of three. I have calculated the premium of Rs 10 lakh as per
day one. So now the
premium is on the screen in front of you. You
can see the features,
I have shared the comparison with you.
Still, do not forget to do your due diligence
and you can plan accordingly.  Choose if
you want to connect with our team.
Our contact number and email ID are
mentioned below, you can reach us out. And
before leaving, a quick reminder, if
you have not yet subscribed to our channel, do it
so that you get the right information
at the right time. See you soon
in the next video. Till then, stay safe and take care. Bye Bye.